Choosing the Right Tool There is no silver bullet in
selecting the right suite of tools, but before you pick any tools,
you must have your general requirements and approach laid out
to ensure you pick the best tools you can.
I just heard a story from someone working at a major insurance company.
And guess what?
Someone bought a tool with no forethought and said, "Just go use it.
" Even if management did pick a tool or set of tools for you,
pause a moment and first figure out what the requirements are,
so you can then validate that the tool or tools can get the job done.
Okay, that's my two cents.
Let's look at the tools that might fit well for this course.
Here are some tools for tracking and managing demand and work.
Here are 20 products in the market today that may help you out.
Products are changing all the time, but here is a starter list for you.
I'm not going to promote any one of them,
since like all products, there's pros and cons to everyone.
But you absolutely need a tool and a processes in
this course to help you manage, track, and deliver a high quality output,
maximize your resources, and also improve morale,
since everyone knows exactly what will be going on.
So on the first half, we have Active Collab,
Agile for Scrum, Assembla, Blossom, Crocagile,
DoneDone, Eylean, Excel, Favro, and Jira.
In the other column, we have LeanKit, Mingle,
PivotalTracker, Scrum Mate, smartQ, SprintGround,
Sprintly, Targetprocess, VersionOne, and Workzone.
Now Excel of course is the cheapest.
If you don't have any budget, you can likely bootstrap,
backlogs, and you name it with Excel.
But I wouldn't recommend it in the long haul.
The most popular, I believe, is Jira.
I do use it, but again,
determine your requirements and then pick your tool or tools to get it done.
Here are some guidance on choosing the right tool.
Just pick one, move fast, and don't overanalyze it.
Cloud-based systems are cheap.
What's nice about these is that provisioning takes about an
hour and you can quit anytime you don't like it and not
bring out very much money at all.
In fact, sign up for two or three concurrently and compare and contrast.
Try using off-the-shelf settings or templates.
Don't get fancy and start making up stuff.
Use of out-of-the-box settings first.
Try not to customize but configure to get it as
close as you can to what you want.
Train as a team.
It will level-set everyone's expectations, and I think it's a lot more fun.
Start using and making mistakes is just fine.
Improve and tweak as you go.
Just like Agile,
make incremental improvements where it changes in
how you use the tool over time. Okay, can you predict the future?